October 16, 2023

Small World(Six Degree of Seperation)
	Distance Between people
		Distance in network: distance is shortest path of node u to v
		Distance in social networks:
			typical distance between people in social networks are very small
		Milgram's small world expirement
			First expirement of small workd phenomenm
	The Expirement
		random people got letters and asked to forward it to someone, but only able to pass it through someone they know(first name basis)
		Each person recored who they were and information and sent to next person
		64 letters managed to reach it out of 296. the everage took 6 people to reach desire target
	Facebook
		in friends ciricle, it is determine that in the usa, it is 4 average distance and in world wide its 6
	All real worled networks have a small distance of reach a random person in the network. network
Two Results of Milgram's Expirement
	1) Real world network have short paths between their nodes
	2) people are good to find the shortest path in a network
	Shortest path, A*, Dikstra is another graph, Directed graph only thouh
	Indirected graph.
	Breadth First is the standard algorithm for Undirected Graph
	while good, it only works if we know global information. 
	
	Myopic Algorithm, find shortest path using only local information- A decentralized algorithms.
	klienberg's model of message passing. This model specifies a subclass of small-world netowrks.
Model Small-world Networks
	Sparse Graphs with high transitivity
		real world networks need to be
			1) sparse: means that they have relatively small number of edges
			2) they have high transitivity: means that its global and local clustering coefficients are high
	Transitivity-Two of my friend are friends. How many nodes connecting to u are also connected to each other
	Higher clustering coefficients, low betweeness
	Grid graph, it is not sparse due to it needing to travel whole graph.
	A sparse, high transitivity and show small-world property graph would be useful for a real world networks
	A random graph can generate a  small world phenomenom. But it is not sparse, and have high transitivity?
	Does it exist? No such graph exists that can have all of these properties
A hybdrid model creation:
	to generate a graph that has all of these properties
	take a sparse graph with high transitivity, add a small number of edges to it.
	new edges added to thse graph are shorcuts. We choose these new edges from u and v from a probability p.
Decentralized Algorithm
	Decentralized Search
		given a small world network, a decentralized algorithm seeks to pass a message from a starting node s to a target node t by advancing the message along edges. in each step, the current message holder knows:
			All nodes and all local between them
			its own shortcuts
		The delivery time is epected number of steps needed to reach the target over randomly chosen nodes s and t
Local Edge Ditance
	a myopic search algorithm is a greedy algorithm.
	local edge distance
	l(u) a distance from two nodes by only local edges, ignore all shortcuts
	any vertex u has a neighbor v that l(v) < l(u). this neighbor is closer to target than u. in the local edge metrix.
	the message holder knows l(u) for every node u
Myopic Search Algorithm
	send a message to a neighbor closer to the targer(based on l(v). don't know any shorcuts, just the l(v) of neighbor
	there can be shorter paths, but since we don't know what the other node paths are, it can be possible that there is a shorter path.
Analysis of Myopic Search
	Is it Efficient?
		Not for all small world netowrks. it depends on how we add shortcuts. The worst case scenerio of delivery time is O(n). were n is the number of nodes in the networks
	Solution is to choose a different method of adding shortcuts to the spart and high transitivity graph
	O(log^2 n) would be a ideal delivery time
The modificatin is the Klienberg's Model
	The shorcuts are added to local distance of nodes
	if local distance is high, we add a shorcuts to it.
	we add a shorcut from one nodeo another with a probability of distance ^\alpha. where \alpha is a positive value
	how big should \alpha be?
	if too big, the shorcuts willl b added that are not long enough to creat a small world
	if too small, the shortcuts are long enough, but but be used for decentralized search
	\alpha depends on the graph.
		
	
	