November 8 2023

Nash Equilibria and Network Traffic
	Nash Equilibria
		recap
		a pay off matrix and normal form game:
			we have players, strategies, outcomes payoff functions, payoff matrix, and assumption for games
		in the matrix, each row a strategy for player1 and column are strategies for player2
		intersction is the outcomes of each strategies chosen from each player
		payoff function = P_1(S), is the function of each outcome for each strategy
		each outcome, has payoff fore both player 1 and player 2
		we assume that each players knows each other outcomes and strategies, we also assume that each player is rational(want to get the highest payoff)
		Best response, the choice of  a strategy is the best based on a different strategy of the other player
		Domininant strategy, a strategythat is the best response for every other stratregy for player 2
		
		if only one has a dominant strategy, other strategy chooses the best response to this strategy
		
	Idea of Nash Equilibrium
		Even when there are no dominant strateies, we expect player sto choose strategies that are best responses to each other
		how come?
			if players choose best response to each ohter, then no player has an incentive to deviate to another strategy. These outcomes are stable and there is no incentive for the player to change.
		a pair of strategies (S,T) is call a Nash Equilibrium. if S is the best reponse to T and T is the best response to S.
	Single Nash Equilibria
		if a fame has a sinle nash equilibrium, we assume that all players choose strategies in this equilibrium
		What if there is more than one Nash Equilibrium?
	Hawk dove game
		is there a dominant strategy?
			no, there is none for both players
		There is two nash equilibrium in the game, but it is unstable, as we can't assume what the other player could do
	Behavior of two players
		if player a has a strictly dominant strategy S, does play it? yes
		B then decides to do best response
		in thi situtaion, there is only one nash equilibrium
	Modeling Network Traffic
		A road netoowkr in which A to C is x/100 min (x num of cars) and A to D is 45 min
		C to B is 45 min and D to B is x/100
		Num of players is 4k
		strategy is acb or adb
		payoff -(total travel time)
		do we have a dominant strategy?
		What is the equilibrium out come?
		Nash Equilibrium, any other choice make their situtaion choice FOR ALL PLAYERS
		Half players choose acb and the other half take adb.
		4000 choose 2000 Nash Equilibria
		
		Is there another nash equilibrium? nope, there is only those 4000 choose 2000 nash equilibrium
	New High way
		what if there is a new lane. Makes sense to to take ACDB over anything else. because 4000/100 < 45
	Braes's Paradox
		A new highway makes the situtation way worse if there is was one lane made
	Is it suprising?
		if each player had thonly strategy not confess in the prisoner's dilemma game, -1 is superior to -4
	How to predict players, if there is no Nash Equilibria
		ex, the head and taails game. if match, give player 1 to 2 coin, other wise give player 2 to 1
		Get a strategy get a maximum strategy by tossing the coin using .
		pure strategies, strategies that are choosen by the player
		mixed strategy, are a probability distrubtion of which strategy to choose.
		now we can determine strategy based on the distrubtion of the actor.
		Now instead of A outcome, we can use the expect outcome
		so best probabilty if p = 1/2 and q = 1/2 in this game. 
		A mixed strategy game with a finite number of layers, a finite number of pure strategies for each player has at least one nash equilibrium of mixed strategies.
		adding probability to game theory, it becomes elegant.
		maxmin - maximizes the his worst case payoff
		minmax minimizes the best case payoff of the oppenent.
		a nesh equilibrium is both of these
		