December 4, 2023
	Network Science Study guide
		Final Exam stuff to get ready for!
		last HW assignment and studies
		Diffusion review to udnerstand what is going on.
		Hits will be done one wednesday
	read Slides and HW assignment about what to study on
	Note on Final Exam
		Aud 841 open book and open note
		9 problems with  20 points
		problem 1 measures for network
		problem 2 page ranke
			Need to understand page ranke and the idea of how it works
		problem 3 Modulairty
			no calculation but for a given colored graph, we need to understand how it works
			idea of modularity what are we actually measuring
		problem 4 Decentralized search
			decentralized search with the myopic search algorithm,
		problem 5 random netowrks and scale free networks
			scale free = have power logic distribution
				no need to compute, just understand a random graph and a power logic distribution
				the distribution of a power logic is logoritmic distribution
				random graph it is an average degree distributed
		problem 6 signed networks
			given a sign graph, determined if it is balanced or not
		problem 7
			diffusion epidemic on networks
		problem 8 and 9
			two questions on presentation topics
			
	HW 5 review
		see why the second questions is wwrong
			the maximum threshold is 1/2.
			Node 1 while 1/5 will work, check the nieghbors' neighbors to see if thier threshold can be higher and still generate a cascade
			For this one 
				1)Find the node with the highest degrees.
				2) then check each of its neighbor to find which one can have a full cascade with the degree netowrk.
				ex) node 1 has 5 neighbors. Cheacck the amount of neighbors has the (form fraction 1/n) then apply that threshold from highest to lowest until we get a complete cascade
		question 4
			gamma is the removal sum of the death and the recovery rate.
				so for this question it was q + r
		Question 3
			gamma is  1/7 Because we assume that a person will recover is 1/7(for a day)
			is 7 days ( goes to 1 ) because by that time, of the 7 out of 7 will have recover.
	Review Time
		Diffusion in networks
			3 models of diffusion
				fraction, linear and threshold model
			diffusion is choosing to change, epidemics you don't choose. it happens to you
			cascade - procss in which each node changes
			A complete cascade is when all of the nodes change to it.
			In threshold model, it is an undirected graph.
				not necessary all nodes have the same threhold. each threshold could have thier own value.
				in node 1, 2 wil be activated because the nieghbors of 2 are 1 and 3. the fraction is 1/2
				since the fraction is 1/2 is larger than 1/3 threshold, it will activate
				the \Theta(i) = \frac{\sum i_n * weight_i_n}{d_i}
			Linear Model
				Applied to directed graph
				the notion of threshold is based on entrance.
				for eah node i, let \theta(i) be a nonegtive threshold.
				for it to be influence, the incoming activated weighted edges have a total sum that is higher than tlhe threshold.
				The overall influence is the total number of nodes that were activated.
			