Week 7 Lecture 1
October 9, 2023
Community Detection
	We have only graph, will want to know which of these nodes are groups.
	each group has many edge within its members, each group has very few edges betweens other groups
	How to define many and few?
	there are some approaches to find these clusters.
	what are the approaches of these
		In Terms of modularity
			Modularity is the measurement for Homophily
			range between -1 and 1
			0 means that there is no Modularity and the class is not dependent
			Is good, but it is an NP problem.
			Doesn't give the best method, but it gives the locally best result
		In Terms of betweenness
			Find the Edge that has Highest betweenness, cull it and then continue.????
			Higher betweenness, its a bridge to another group. Cull it and continue with algorith for some amount of iteration
		In Terms of Hierarchical Clustering
			Also as finding the similarity of each group.
Hierarchical Clustering
	Idea
		Graphs start with single node group, if some of these groups are similar, we merge them. Then we continue the process
	How does on define similarity?
		Shortest path distance
		Similarity for nodes repressented by rows of the adjacency matrix
		Similarity for nodes repressented by thier neighborhood subgraphs
	Now need to decide measure similarity of each of these groups
		Define by best similarity of each group
		Complete linkage similarity
			the similarity is defined by the least similar pair of nodes
		Average-linkage similarity the similarity is defined by the mean similarity among all nodes
	Read about hierarchical clustering method in Section 14.5.2.
	Read 14.5
Transitivity And Clustering Coefficients
	How to measure some properties of the Graphs
	Main applications are in biological networks to find groups and clustering
	Another applications is in sociology to see how groups they are in and how they interact with each other.
	What is the graph about
	Modeling real workd networks with Graphs
		Graphs are expected to mimic the properties of the networks: connectivity, distances between nodes, degree distribution, etc.
		do they have any common properties?
		how arebitrary can they be?does any graph can be the underling graph of a real world networks?
	Ansewr to both are no.
	Describe an underlyihg graph of a ereal wold networks
	A Random Graphs
		Two definitions of a Random Graph
			1) The G(n,p) model
				havce n vertices and we place and edge between eah pair of distinct vertices with independent probability p
			2) the G(n,m)model
				we take n vertices and we choose m pairs of vertices uniformly at random fraom all (n2) pairs of distinct vertices.
				Then we connect the vertices in each chosen pair by an edge
	the G(n,p) mosel is much more widely studied.
	can we have a random graph with no edges?
		possible, but the chances are so low that we can say no.but chances are unlikely
	The expect number of edges in a G(n,p) graph
	pair(n | 2) * p
	(n | 2) = n(n-1)/2
	so E(G(n,p) = np*(n-1)/2
	The Expected degree of a random graph. 
		(n-1)* p is the expected degree for each vertex
	