Ocotber 4, 2023
Recap
	past fwe weeks learned about centrality
	last class, learn about modularity of graph networks
	Closeness is measure of centrality
	Modularity is measure of Homophily
	Homophily is tendency of connections of similar nodes.
	Modularity use to measure Homophily of graph
	1 means we have edges of similar nodes, none with dissimilar nodes
	0 means that there is no homophily. Edges have nothing to do with communities
	negative means we have edges of people with dissimilar nodes.
Community Detection Part 1
	there is a network and we have to find communities in the network
	Netowkr of coauthorships in a univeristy department
	the problem of fiding groups of nodes callec community detection
	Will need to find algorithm to find these communities(clusters)
	Understand approaches of these algorithm and main ideas on these community detection
	informally
		Given a network, devide it into grousp of nodes, called communities such that there are many edges within groups and a few edges between them
	what we mean by many and few?
	Major Approcheas
		definition in terms of modularity maximization
		definition in terms of edge betweenness
		definition in terms of hierarchical clustering
Modularity Maximization
	fint its partition into communites that maximizes the modularity
	Complexity, this is an NP-hard. The cost of the computation is really high.
	Main approchas are approximation. Can't find best, but we can find some that are high modularity. Find not the best but find the high solution.
	Probabilistic algorithm.
		Monte Carlo
	Can't solve for general, but we can solve it for special types.
	Huerstic algorithm-also known as greedy algorithm
	Example of Simple Greedy Algorithm for partition a graph into two groups
		1)start with a random parition intwo two groups
		2)for each node, calculate how much modularity woud change if that node were moved to the other group
		3)choose a node with the maximum increa of the modularity and move it to the other grouo
		4)repeat steps 2 and 3
	Approximation Algorithm
		read section 14.2.3 adn 14.2.4
		the algorithm uses the relaxation method, which is a standard technique in solving discrete optimization problem
		Relaxation method
			considered real number, and then we ronud the real number to integers.
			In the ase of two communites, the algorithm works witha special matrix of size nxn and computesits leading eigenvector. then the algorithm assigns nodes to communites according to the signs of the elements in this vector
			its better than the greedy algorithm
		The Louvian Algorithm
			its stars with single node grpups, each node forms its own group
			then the algoirthm merges groups into larger ones. each step, the algorithm performs a merge that most increases the modularity and repeats this procedue until no furhter increase is possible.
			read section 14.2.5
			Nauty package contains task for graph functionanility
		Limit for Modularity maximization
			cannot see communites in a network if they are too small, relative to the size of the network as a whole
Other Approcheas to Community Detection
	Betweenness and Hierachical Clustering
	Betweenness based Methods
		Measured how many people pass throught it. See who controls over the shortest path.
	Bridge like links
		a netowkr is an island , possibl connected with other islands by a few bridges
		Have to identify bridge lik edges that lie between them
		What is a bridge like links
		sectionFlows- a netowkr is viewed as a set of nodes connected by paths along whcih something flows. edges that are like bridge expected to have high values of the edge betweenness
		Find edge with hieghest betweens, cut it, if there is none to remove, taht is an island
	Grivan-Newman Algorithm calculates edge betweens with BFS for each node
	Each step calculate calculate edge betweeness of each node, reuse calculation next step
	