August 28, 2023

Network Science
		Types of networks
			Social networks, technological network, networks of inf, and bio networks
		Major Topics
			Measurement of Networks
				centrality, similarity
			Properties of networks
				small world, long tails
			Network formation
				rich get richer models
			models of process taking place on networks(diffusion, epidemics, etc.)
				diffusion, epidemics
	Schedule
		Centrality
		similarity
		properties of real world networks
		process on networks
		Got another presentation to do
		Final Exam on Dec 11, 11 - 1:30pm
		6 hw assaingment,have a week to complete it. Two copies.
	
	Examples of real world networks
		Arpa net, connect 13 computers from the 70s.
		Social media is another type of network
		fact of Internet. Can't say much abouts its structure because it was built by many diff groups of people with little centralized control
		best current data onits structure is derived from experimental measurements
		Phone Network is also anothe example of networks
		Power grids, airline and rail lines are also other networks
	Networks of Information
		The web is a directed network wher the nodes are web pages and the directed edges are hypelinks
		web sites might just be copies of others web pages
		Page Rank is an algorithm to rank web pages
		Economic and financial networks are also that. Cryptocurrencies are anotherrone
		Citation networks
			Academic papers that link with other papers to show which othe papers are related to it
		Recommender networks
			use users data inf to show which product is something they will like
	The 80/20 rule
		Vilifredo Pareto, notice that 80% wealth belongs to 20% richest. Similar rule occures in citation network
		can prove this rule mathematically. nearly all networks have this property
		why? is due to a special type of models of network formation. Models of this type are rich-get-richer models
		Biological network also display this property
	Social Network
		Social media, Twitters, Facebook and othe social media sites
		Collaboration Networks: Erdos number
			Collaboration network, nodes are mathematicians: two nodes are connced by an edge if they co-outred a paper indexed by MathSciNet
		Erdos Number:
			is the collaboration distance from paul Erdos
		Shows distance from one mathematician from one to another
			in other, shortest closest nodes path.
		Kevin bacon number, similar concept.
	Small World Expirements
		Expirements that people are about 6 degree of seperation in the social media space
		Decentralized search allows to find closest people
		Another properties have Positive and negative relationship
		these network allows to show stability of a relationship
		over time, stable relationship win out
	Biological Networks
		won't have time to cover this. But, independent research can talk more about this.
		metabolic networks, protein-protein interaction properties
		gene regulatory networks
		Medical network, such as how each disease is realted to each other and effect on human body
		Ecological network
			food webs
Graph Theory.
	Definition of Graph Theory
		A graph is just a set of vertices connted by edges
		A Vertex holes some object of information. and a edge connectes two nodes(could be the same)
	Format Definition
		A Graph G = (V,E)
		set of vertices V and a set of Edges E
		V = {v,v} and E = {e,e}
		relationship of edges and vertices, need to show each edge and its associated vertices
		-------------
		e_1 | {v1, v2}
		e_2 | {v1}
		e_3 | {v2}
	two vertices are adjacent if they are endpoints of the same edge
	adjacent vertices are also called neighbors
	edges connects ints endpoint.
	if vertex has no incident, its isolated
	Directed Graphs
		Graphs that show edge, vertice and direction of the edge
	Weighted Graphs
		graph in which edge has a weight value.
	Vertex Degrees
		is number of edges connected to a vertex
		a loop is counted twice
		ex, facebook vertex degree are friends
		Total degree summation of all degrees of each vertex
		handshake Theorem
		Sum deg(v) = 2 * M
		where m is number of edges
		Total degree of a graph is even
		in directed graph, us in degree and out degree
	Simple Graph
		a simple is a graph tha does not have loops
	Complete graph.
		a graph with all possible edges
	Bipartite Graph
		a simple graph whose vertex set V can be devided into two disjont nonempty subset V1 and V2.
		